insides like needles as he wondered what was going to happen to him if he
was expelled. The idea was so terrible that he did not dare voice it aloud, not
even to Ron and Hermione, who, though he often saw them whispering
together and casting anxious looks in his direction, followed his lead in not
mentioning it. Sometimes he could not prevent his imagination showing him a
faceless Ministry official who was snapping his wand in two and ordering
him back to the Dursleys’ . . . but he would not go. He was determined on
that. He would come back here to Grimmauld Place and live with Sirius.
He felt as though a brick had dropped into his stomach when Mrs. Weasley
turned to him during dinner on Wednesday evening and said quietly, “I’ve
ironed your best clothes for tomorrow morning, Harry, and I want you to
wash your hair tonight too. A good first impression can work wonders.”
Ron, Hermione, Fred, George, and Ginny all stopped talking and looked
over at him. Harry nodded and tried to keep eating his chops, but his mouth
had become so dry he could not chew.
“How am I getting there?” he asked Mrs. Weasley, trying to sound
unconcerned.
“Arthur’s taking you to work with him,” said Mrs. Weasley gently.
Mr. Weasley smiled encouragingly at Harry across the table.
“You can wait in my office until it’s time for the hearing,” he said.
Harry looked over at Sirius, but before he could ask the question, Mrs.
Weasley had answered it.
“Professor Dumbledore doesn’t think it’s a good idea for Sirius to go with
you, and I must say I —”
“— think he’s quite right,” said Sirius through clenched teeth.
Mrs. Weasley pursed her lips.
“When did Dumbledore tell you that?” Harry said, staring at Sirius.
“He came last night, when you were in bed,” said Mr. Weasley.
Sirius stabbed moodily at a potato with his fork. Harry dropped his own
eyes to his plate. The thought that Dumbledore had been in the house on the
e
v
e
o
f
h
i
s
h
e
a
r
i
n
g
a
n
d
n
o
t
a
s
k
e
d
t
o
s
e
e
h
i
m
m
a
d
e
h
i
m
f
e
e
l
,
i
f
t
h
a
t
w
e
r
e
p
o
s
s
i
b
l
e
,
e
v
e
n
w
o
r
s
e.
H
CHAPTER SEVEN
THE MINISTRY OF MAGIC
arry awoke at half-past five the next morning as abruptly and
completely as if somebody had yelled in his ear. For a few moments he
lay immobile as the prospect of the hearing filled every tiny particle of his
brain, then, unable to bear it, he leapt out of bed and put on his glasses. Mrs.
Weasley had laid out his freshly laundered jeans and T-shirt at the foot of his
bed. Harry scrambled into them. The blank picture on the wall sniggered
again.
Ron was lying sprawled on his back with his mouth wide open, fast asleep.
He did not stir as Harry crossed the room, stepped out onto the landing, and
closed the door softly behind him. Trying not to think of the next time he
would see Ron, when they might no longer be fellow students at Hogwarts,
Harry walked quietly down the stairs, past the heads of Kreacher’s ancestors,
and into the kitchen.
He had expected it to be empty, but it was not. When he reached the door
he heard the soft rumble of voices on the other side and when he pushed it
open he saw Mr. and Mrs. Weasley, Sirius, Lupin, and Tonks sitting there
almost as though they were waiting for him. All were fully dressed except
Mrs. Weasley, who was wearing a quilted, purple dressing gown. She leapt to
her feet the moment he entered.
“Breakfast,” she said as she pulled out her wand and hurried over to the
fire.
“M-m-morning, Harry,” yawned Tonks. Her hair was blonde and curly this
morning. “Sleep all right?”
“Yeah,” said Harry.
“I’ve b-b-been up all night,” she said, with another shuddering yawn.
“Come and sit down . . .”
She drew out a chair, knocking over the one beside it in the process.
“What do you want, Harry?” Mrs. Weasley called. “Porridge? Muffins?
Kippers? Bacon and eggs? Toast?”
“Just — just toast, thanks,” said Harry.
Lupin glanced at Harry, then said to Tonks, “What were you saying about
Scrimgeour?”
“Oh . . . yeah . . . well, we need to be a bit more careful, he’s been asking
Kingsley and me funny questions . . .”
Harry felt vaguely grateful that he was not required to join in the
conversation. His insides were squirming. Mrs. Weasley placed a couple of
pieces of toast and marmalade in front of him; he tried to eat, but it was like
chewing carpet. Mrs. Weasley sat down on his other side and started fussing
with his T-shirt, tucking in the label and smoothing out creases across the
shoulders. He wished she wouldn’t.
“. . . and I’ll have to tell Dumbledore I can’t do night duty tomorrow, I’m
just t-t-too tired,” Tonks finished, yawning hugely again.
“I’ll cover for you,” said Mr. Weasley. “I’m okay, I’ve got a report to finish
anyway . . .”
Mr. Weasley was not wearing wizard’s robes but a pair of pin-striped
trousers and an old bomber jacket. He turned from Tonks to Harry.
“How are you feeling?”
Harry shrugged.
“It’ll all be over soon,” Mr. Weasley said bracingly. “In a few hours’ time
you’ll be cleared.”
Harry said nothing.
“The hearing’s on my floor, in Amelia Bones’s office. She’s Head of the
Department of Magical Law Enforcement and she’s the one who’ll be
questioning you.”
“Amelia Bones is okay, Harry,” said Tonks earnestly. “She’s fair, she’ll
hear you out.”
Harry nodded, still unable to think of anything to say.
“Don’t lose your temper,” said Sirius abruptly. “Be polite and stick to the
facts.”
Harry nodded again.
“The law’s on your side,” said Lupin quietly. “Even underage wizards are
allowed to use magic in life-threatening situations.”
Something very cold trickled down the back of Harry’s neck; for a moment
he thought someone was putting a Disillusionment Charm on him again, then
he realized that Mrs. Weasley was attacking his hair with a wet comb. She
pressed hard on the top of his head.
“Doesn’t it ever lie flat?” she said desperately.
Harry shook his head.
Mr. Weasley checked his watch and looked up at Harry.
“I think we’ll go now,” he said. “We’re a bit early, but I think you’ll be
better off there than hanging around here.”
“Okay,” said Harry automatically, dropping his toast and getting to his feet.
“You’ll be all right, Harry,” said Tonks, patting him on the arm.
“Good luck,” said Lupin. “I’m sure it will be fine.”
“And if it’s not,” said Sirius grimly, “I’ll see to Amelia Bones for you . . .”
Harry smiled weakly. Mrs. Weasley hugged him.
“We’ve all got our fingers crossed,” she said.
“Right,” said Harry. “Well . . . see you later then.”
He followed Mr. Weasley upstairs and along the hall. He could hear Sirius’s
mother grunting in her sleep behind her curtains. Mr. Weasley unbolted the
door and they stepped out into the cold, gray dawn.
“You don’t normally walk to work, do you?” Harry asked him, as they set
off briskly around the square.
“No, I usually Apparate,” said Mr. Weasley, “but obviously you can’t, and I
think it’s best we arrive in a thoroughly non-magical fashion . . . makes a
better impression, given what you’re being disciplined for . . .”
Mr. Weasley kept his hand inside his jacket as they walked. Harry knew it
was clenched around his wand. The run-down streets were almost deserted,
but when they arrived at the miserable little Underground station they found it
already full of early morning commuters. As ever when he found himself in
close proximity to Muggles going about their daily business, Mr. Weasley was
hard put to contain his enthusiasm.
“Simply fabulous,” he whispered, indicating the automatic ticket machines.
“Wonderfully ingenious.”
“They’re out of order,” said Harry, pointing at the sign.
“Yes, but even so . . .” said Mr. Weasley, beaming fondly at them.
They bought their tickets instead from a sleepy-looking guard (Harry
handled the transaction, as Mr. Weasley was not very good with Muggle
money) and five minutes later they were boarding an Underground train that
rattled them off toward the center of London. Mr. Weasley kept anxiously
checking and rechecking the Underground map above the windows.
“Four stops, Harry . . . three stops left now . . . two stops to go, Harry . . .”
They got off at a station in the very heart of London, swept from the train
in a tide of besuited men and women carrying briefcases. Up the escalator
they went, through the ticket barrier (Mr. Weasley delighted with the way the
stile swallowed his ticket), and emerged onto a broad street lined with
imposing-looking buildings, already full of traffic.
“Where are we?” said Mr. Weasley blankly, and for one heart-stopping
moment Harry thought they had gotten off at the wrong station despite Mr.
Weasley’s continual references to the map; but a second later he said, “Ah
yes . . . this way, Harry,” and led him down a side road.
“Sorry,” he said, “but I never come by train and it all looks rather different
from a Muggle perspective. As a matter of fact I’ve never even used the
visitor’s entrance before.”
The farther they walked, the smaller and less imposing the buildings
became, until finally they reached a street that contained several rather
shabby-looking offices, a pub, and an overflowing dumpster. Harry had
expected a rather more impressive location for the Ministry of Magic.
“Here we are,” said Mr. Weasley brightly, pointing at an old red telephone
box, which was missing several panes of glass and stood before a heavily
graffittied wall. “After you, Harry.”
He opened the telephone box door.
Harry stepped inside, wondering what on earth this was about. Mr. Weasley
folded himself in beside Harry and closed the door. It was a tight fit; Harry
was jammed against the telephone apparatus, which was hanging crookedly
from the wall as though a vandal had tried to rip it off. Mr. Weasley reached
past Harry for the receiver.
“Mr. Weasley, I think this might be out of order too,” Harry said.
“No, no, I’m sure it’s fine,” said Mr. Weasley, holding the receiver above
his head and peering at the dial. “Let’s see . . . six . . .” he dialed the number,
“two . . . four . . . and another four . . . and another two . . .”
As the dial whirred smoothly back into place, a cool female voice sounded
inside the telephone box, not from the receiver in Mr. Weasley’s hand, but as
loudly and plainly as though an invisible woman were standing right beside
them.
“Welcome to the Ministry of Magic. Please state your name and business.”
“Er . . .” said Mr. Weasley, clearly uncertain whether he should talk into the
receiver or not; he compromised by holding the mouthpiece to his ear,
“Arthur Weasley, Misuse of Muggle Artifacts Office, here to escort Harry
Potter, who has been asked to attend a disciplinary hearing . . .”
“Thank you,” said the cool female voice. “Visitor, please take the badge
and attach it to the front of your robes.”
There was a click and a rattle, and Harry saw something slide out of the
metal chute where returned coins usually appeared. He picked it up: It was a
square silver badge with Harry Potter, Disciplinary Hearing on it. He pinned
it to the front of his T-shirt as the female voice spoke again.
“Visitor to the Ministry, you are required to submit to a search and present
your wand for registration at the security desk, which is located at the far end
of the Atrium.”
The floor of the telephone box shuddered. They were sinking slowly into
the ground. Harry watched apprehensively as the pavement rose up past the
glass windows of the telephone box until darkness closed over their heads.
Then he could see nothing at all; he could only hear a dull grinding noise as
the telephone box made its way down through the earth. After about a minute,
though it felt much longer to Harry, a chink of golden light illuminated his
feet and, widening, rose up his body, until it hit him in the face and he had to
blink to stop his eyes from watering.
“The Ministry of Magic wishes you a pleasant day,” said the woman’s
voice.
The door of the telephone box sprang open and Mr. Weasley stepped out of
it, followed by Harry, whose mouth had fallen open.
They were standing at one end of a very long and splendid hall with a
highly polished, dark wood floor. The peacock-blue ceiling was inlaid with
gleaming golden symbols that were continually moving and changing like
some enormous heavenly notice board. The walls on each side were paneled
in shiny dark wood and had many gilded fireplaces set into them. Every few
seconds a witch or wizard would emerge from one of the left-hand fireplaces
with a soft whoosh; on the right-hand side, short queues of wizards were
forming before each fireplace, waiting to depart.
Halfway down the hall was a fountain. A group of golden statues, larger
than life-size, stood in the middle of a circular pool. Tallest of them all was a
noble-looking wizard with his wand pointing straight up in the air. Grouped
around him were a beautiful witch, a centaur, a goblin, and a house-elf. The
last three were all looking adoringly up at the witch and wizard. Glittering jets
of water were flying from the ends of the two wands, the point of the
centaur’s arrow, the tip of the goblin’s hat, and each of the house-elf’s ears, so
that the tinkling hiss of falling water was added to the pops and cracks of
Apparators and the clatter of footsteps as hundreds of witches and wizards,
most of whom were wearing glum, early-morning looks, strode toward a set
of golden gates at the far end of the hall.
“This way,” said Mr. Weasley.
They joined the throng, wending their way between the Ministry workers,
some of whom were carrying tottering piles of parchment, others battered
briefcases, still others reading the Daily Prophet as they walked. As they
passed the fountain Harry saw silver Sickles and bronze Knuts glinting up at
him from the bottom of the pool. A small, smudged sign beside it read:
All proceeds from the Fountain of Magical Brethren will be given to St.
Mungo’s Hospital for Magical Maladies and Injuries
If I’m not expelled from Hogwarts, I’ll put in ten Galleons, Harry found
himself thinking desperately.
“Over here, Harry,” said Mr. Weasley, and they stepped out of the stream of
Ministry employees heading for the golden gates, toward a desk on the left,
over which hung a sign saying SECURITY. A badly shaven wizard in peacockblue robes looked up as they approached and put down his Daily Prophet.
“I’m escorting a visitor,” said Mr. Weasley, gesturing toward Harry.
“Step over here,” said the wizard in a bored voice.
Harry walked closer to him and the wizard held up a long golden rod, thin
and flexible as a car aerial, and passed it up and down Harry’s front and back.
“Wand,” grunted the security wizard at Harry, putting down the golden
instrument and holding out his hand.
Harry produced his wand. The wizard dropped it onto a strange brass
instrument, which looked something like a set of scales with only one dish. It
began to vibrate. A narrow strip of parchment came speeding out of a slit in
the base. The wizard tore this off and read the writing upon it.
“Eleven inches, phoenix-feather core, been in use four years. That correct?”
“Yes,” said Harry nervously.
“I keep this,” said the wizard, impaling the slip of parchment on a small
brass spike. “You get this back,” he added, thrusting the wand at Harry.
“Thank you.”
“Hang on . . .” said the wizard slowly.
His eyes had darted from the silver visitor’s badge on Harry’s chest to his
forehead.
“Thank you, Eric,” said Mr. Weasley firmly, and grasping Harry by the
shoulder, he steered him away from the desk and back into the stream of
wizards and witches walking through the golden gates.
Jostled slightly by the crowd, Harry followed Mr. Weasley through the
gates into the smaller hall beyond, where at least twenty lifts stood behind
wrought golden grilles. Harry and Mr. Weasley joined the crowd around one
of them. A big, bearded wizard holding a large cardboard box stood nearby.
The box was emitting rasping noises.
“All right, Arthur?” said the wizard, nodding at Mr. Weasley.
“What’ve you got there, Bob?” asked Mr. Weasley, looking at the box.
“We’re not sure,” said the wizard seriously. “We thought it was a bogstandard chicken until it started breathing fire. Looks like a serious breach of
the Ban on Experimental Breeding to me.”
With a great jangling and clattering a lift descended in front of them; the
golden grille slid back and Harry and Mr. Weasley moved inside it with the
rest of the crowd. Harry found himself jammed against the back wall of the
lift. Several witches and wizards were looking at him curiously; he stared at
his feet to avoid catching anyone’s eye, flattening his fringe as he did so. The
grilles slid shut with a crash and the lift ascended slowly, chains rattling all
the while, while the same cool female voice Harry had heard in the telephone
box rang out again.
“Level seven, Department of Magical Games and Sports, incorporating the
British and Irish Quidditch League Headquarters, Official Gobstones Club,
and Ludicrous Patents Office.”
The lift doors opened; Harry glimpsed an untidy-looking corridor, with
various posters of Quidditch teams tacked lopsidedly on the walls; one of the
wizards in the lift, who was carrying an armful of broomsticks, extricated
himself with difficulty and disappeared down the corridor. The doors closed,
the lift juddered upward again, and the woman’s voice said, “Level six,
Department of Magical Transport, incorporating the Floo Network Authority,
Broom Regulatory Control, Portkey Office, and Apparation Test Center.”
Once again the lift doors opened and four or five witches and wizards got
out; at the same time, several paper airplanes swooped into the lift. Harry
stared up at them as they flapped idly around above his head; they were a pale
violet color and he could see MINISTRY OF MAGIC stamped along the edges of
their wings.
“Just Interdepartmental memos,” Mr. Weasley muttered to him. “We used
to use owls, but the mess was unbelievable . . . droppings all over the
desks . . .”
As they clattered upward again, the memos flapped around the swaying
lamp in the lift’s ceiling.
“Level five, Department of International Magical Cooperation,
incorporating the International Magical Trading Standards Body, the
International Magical Office of Law, and the International Confederation of
Wizards, British Seats.”
When the doors opened, two of the memos zoomed out with a few more