“I’ll give you undercover!” cried Mrs. Figg. “Dementors, you useless,
skiving sneak thief!”
“Dementors?” repeated Mundungus, aghast. “Dementors here?”
“Yes, here, you worthless pile of bat droppings, here!” shrieked Mrs. Figg.
“Dementors attacking the boy on your watch!”
“Blimey,” said Mundungus weakly, looking from Mrs. Figg to Harry and
back again. “Blimey, I . . .”
“And you off buying stolen cauldrons! Didn’t I tell you not to go? Didn’t
I?”
“I — well, I —” Mundungus looked deeply uncomfortable. “It . . . it was a
very good business opportunity, see . . .”
Mrs. Figg raised the arm from which her string bag dangled and whacked
Mundungus around the face and neck with it; judging by the clanking noise it
made it was full of cat food.
“Ouch — gerroff — gerroff, you mad old bat! Someone’s gotta tell
Dumbledore!”
“Yes — they — have!” yelled Mrs. Figg, still swinging the bag of cat food
at every bit of Mundungus she could reach. “And — it — had — better — be
— you — and — you — can — tell — him — why — you — weren’t —
there — to — help!”
“Keep your ’airnet on!” said Mundungus, his arms over his head, cowering.
“I’m going, I’m going!”
And with another loud crack, he vanished.
“I hope Dumbledore murders him!” said Mrs. Figg furiously. “Now come
on, Harry, what are you waiting for?”
Harry decided not to waste his remaining breath on pointing out that he
could barely walk under Dudley’s bulk. He gave the semiconscious Dudley a
heave and staggered onward.
“I’ll take you to the door,” said Mrs. Figg, as they turned into Privet Drive.
“Just in case there are more of them around. . . . Oh my word, what a
catastrophe . . . and you had to fight them off yourself . . . and Dumbledore
said we were to keep you from doing magic at all costs. . . . Well, it’s no good
crying over spilled potion, I suppose . . . but the cat’s among the pixies
now . . .”
“So,” Harry panted, “Dumbledore’s . . . been having . . . me followed?”
“Of course he has,” said Mrs. Figg impatiently. “Did you expect him to let
you wander around on your own after what happened in June? Good Lord,
boy, they told me you were intelligent. . . . Right . . . get inside and stay
there,” she said as they reached number four. “I expect someone will be in
touch with you soon enough.”
“What are you going to do?” asked Harry quickly.
“I’m going straight home,” said Mrs. Figg, staring around the dark street
and shuddering. “I’ll need to wait for more instructions. Just stay in the house.
Good night.”
“Hang on, don’t go yet! I want to know —”
But Mrs. Figg had already set off at a trot, carpet slippers flopping, string
bag clanking.
“Wait!” Harry shouted after her; he had a million questions to ask anyone
who was in contact with Dumbledore; but within seconds Mrs. Figg was
swallowed by the darkness. Scowling, Harry readjusted Dudley on his
shoulder and made his slow, painful way up number four’s garden path.
The hall light was on. Harry stuck his wand back inside the waistband of
his jeans, rang the bell, and watched Aunt Petunia’s outline grow larger and
larger, oddly distorted by the rippling glass in the front door.
“Diddy! About time too, I was getting quite — quite — Diddy, what’s the
matter?”
Harry looked sideways at Dudley and ducked out from under his arm just
in time. Dudley swayed for a moment on the spot, his face pale green, then he
opened his mouth at last and vomited all over the doormat.
“DIDDY! Diddy, what’s the matter with you? Vernon? VERNON!”
Harry’s uncle came galumphing out of the living room, walrus mustache
blowing hither and thither as it always did when he was agitated. He hurried
forward to help Aunt Petunia negotiate a weak-kneed Dudley over the
threshold while avoiding stepping in the pool of sick.
“He’s ill, Vernon!”
“What is it, son? What’s happened? Did Mrs. Polkiss give you something
foreign for tea?”
“Why are you all covered in dirt, darling? Have you been lying on the
ground?”
“Hang on — you haven’t been mugged, have you, son?”
Aunt Petunia screamed.
“Phone the police, Vernon! Phone the police! Diddy, darling, speak to
Mummy! What did they do to you?”
In all the kerfuffle, nobody seemed to have noticed Harry, which suited him
perfectly. He managed to slip inside just before Uncle Vernon slammed the
door and while the Dursleys made their noisy progress down the hall toward
the kitchen, Harry moved carefully and quietly toward the stairs.
“Who did it, son? Give us names. We’ll get them, don’t worry.”
“Shh! He’s trying to say something, Vernon! What is it, Diddy? Tell
Mummy!”
Harry’s foot was on the bottommost stair when Dudley found his voice.
“Him.”
Harry froze, foot on the stair, face screwed up, braced for the explosion.
“BOY! COME HERE!”
With a feeling of mingled dread and anger, Harry removed his foot slowly
from the stair and turned to follow the Dursleys.
The scrupulously clean kitchen had an oddly unreal glitter after the
darkness outside. Aunt Petunia was ushering Dudley into a chair; he was still
very green and clammy looking. Uncle Vernon was standing in front of the
draining board, glaring at Harry through tiny, narrowed eyes.
“What have you done to my son?” he said in a menacing growl.
“Nothing,” said Harry, knowing perfectly well that Uncle Vernon wouldn’t
believe him.
“What did he do to you, Diddy?” Aunt Petunia said in a quavering voice,
now sponging sick from the front of Dudley’s leather jacket. “Was it — was it
you-know-what, darling? Did he use — his thing?”
Slowly, tremulously, Dudley nodded.
“I didn’t!” Harry said sharply, as Aunt Petunia let out a wail and Uncle
Vernon raised his fists. “I didn’t do anything to him, it wasn’t me, it was —”
But at that precise moment a screech owl swooped in through the kitchen
window. Narrowly missing the top of Uncle Vernon’s head, it soared across
the kitchen, dropped the large parchment envelope it was carrying in its beak
at Harry’s feet, and turned gracefully, the tips of its wings just brushing the
top of the fridge, then zoomed outside again and off across the garden.
“OWLS!” bellowed Uncle Vernon, the well-worn vein in his temple
pulsing angrily as he slammed the kitchen window shut. “OWLS AGAIN! I
WILL NOT HAVE ANY MORE OWLS IN MY HOUSE!”
But Harry was already ripping open the envelope and pulling out the letter
inside, his heart pounding somewhere in the region of his Adam’s apple.
Dear Mr. Potter,
We have received intelligence that you performed the Patronus Charm
at twenty-three minutes past nine this evening in a Muggle-inhabited
area and in the presence of a Muggle.
The severity of this breach of the Decree for the Reasonable
Restriction of Underage Sorcery has resulted in your expulsion from
Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry. Ministry representatives
will be calling at your place of residence shortly to destroy your wand.
As you have already received an official warning for a previous
offense under section 13 of the International Confederation of Wizards’
Statute of Secrecy, we regret to inform you that your presence is required
at a disciplinary hearing at the Ministry of Magic at 9 A.M. on August
12th.
Hoping you are well,
Yours sincerely,
IMPROPER USE OF MAGIC OFFICE
Ministry of Magic
Harry read the letter through twice. He was only vaguely aware of Uncle
Vernon and Aunt Petunia talking in the vicinity. Inside his head, all was icy
and numb. One fact had penetrated his consciousness like a paralyzing dart.
He was expelled from Hogwarts. It was all over. He was never going back.
He looked up at the Dursleys. Uncle Vernon was purple-faced, shouting,
his fists still raised; Aunt Petunia had her arms around Dudley, who was
retching again.
Harry’s temporarily stupefied brain seemed to reawaken. Ministry
representatives will be calling at your place of residence shortly to destroy
your wand. There was only one thing for it. He would have to run — now.
Where he was going to go, Harry didn’t know, but he was certain of one
thing: At Hogwarts or outside it, he needed his wand. In an almost dreamlike
state, he pulled his wand out and turned to leave the kitchen.
“Where d’you think you’re going?” yelled Uncle Vernon. When Harry
didn’t reply, he pounded across the kitchen to block the doorway into the hall.
“I haven’t finished with you, boy!”
“Get out of the way,” said Harry quietly.
“You’re going to stay here and explain how my son —”
“If you don’t get out of the way I’m going to jinx you,” said Harry, raising
the wand.
“You can’t pull that one on me!” snarled Uncle Vernon. “I know you’re not
allowed to use it outside that madhouse you call a school!”
“The madhouse has chucked me out,” said Harry. “So I can do whatever I
like. You’ve got three seconds. One — two —”
A resounding CRACK filled the kitchen; Aunt Petunia screamed, Uncle
Vernon yelled and ducked, but for the third time that night Harry was staring
for the source of a disturbance he had not made. He spotted it at once: A
dazed and ruffled-looking barn owl was sitting outside on the kitchen sill,
having just collided with the closed window.
Ignoring Uncle Vernon’s anguished yell of “OWLS!” Harry crossed the
room at a run and wrenched the window open again. The owl stuck out its leg,
to which a small roll of parchment was tied, shook its feathers, and took off
the moment Harry had pulled off the letter. Hands shaking, Harry unfurled the
second message, which was written very hastily and blotchily in black ink.
Harry —
Dumbledore’s just arrived at the Ministry, and he’s trying to sort it all
out. DO NOT LEAVE YOUR AUNT AND UNCLE’S HOUSE. DO NOT
DO ANY MORE MAGIC. DO NOT SURRENDER YOUR WAND.
Dumbledore was trying to sort it all out. . . . What did that mean? How
much power did Dumbledore have to override the Ministry of Magic? Was
there a chance that he might be allowed back to Hogwarts, then? A small
shoot of hope burgeoned in Harry’s chest, almost immediately strangled by
panic — how was he supposed to refuse to surrender his wand without doing
magic? He’d have to duel with the Ministry representatives, and if he did that,
he’d be lucky to escape Azkaban, let alone expulsion.
His mind was racing. . . . He could run for it and risk being captured by the
Ministry, or stay put and wait for them to find him here. He was much more
tempted by the former course, but he knew that Mr. Weasley had his best
interests at heart . . . and, after all, Dumbledore had sorted out much worse
than this before. . . .
“Right,” Harry said, “I’ve changed my mind, I’m staying.”
He flung himself down at the kitchen table and faced Dudley and Aunt
Petunia. The Dursleys appeared taken aback at his abrupt change of mind.
Aunt Petunia glanced despairingly at Uncle Vernon. The vein in Uncle
Vernon’s purple temple was throbbing worse than ever.
“Who are all these ruddy owls from?” he growled.
“The first one was from the Ministry of Magic, expelling me,” said Harry
calmly; he was straining his ears to catch noises outside in case the Ministry
representatives were approaching, and it was easier and quieter to answer
Uncle Vernon’s questions than to have him start raging and bellowing. “The
second one was from my friend Ron’s dad, he works at the Ministry.”
“Ministry of Magic?” bellowed Uncle Vernon. “People like you in
government? Oh this explains everything, everything, no wonder the
country’s going to the dogs . . .”
When Harry did not respond, Uncle Vernon glared at him, then spat, “And
why have you been expelled?”
“Because I did magic.”
“AHA!” roared Uncle Vernon, slamming his fist down on the top of the
fridge, which sprang open; several of Dudley’s low-fat snacks toppled out and
burst on the floor. “So you admit it! What did you do to Dudley?”
“Nothing,” said Harry, slightly less calmly. “That wasn’t me —”
“Was,” muttered Dudley unexpectedly, and Uncle Vernon and Aunt
Petunia instantly made flapping gestures at Harry to quiet him while they both
bent low over Dudley.
“Go on, son,” said Uncle Vernon, “what did he do?”
“Tell us, darling,” whispered Aunt Petunia.
“Pointed his wand at me,” Dudley mumbled.
“Yeah, I did, but I didn’t use —” Harry began angrily, but . . .
“SHUT UP!” roared Uncle Vernon and Aunt Petunia in unison. “Go on,
son,” repeated Uncle Vernon, mustache blowing about furiously.
“All dark,” Dudley said hoarsely, shuddering. “Everything dark. And then I
h-heard . . . things. Inside m-my head . . .”
Uncle Vernon and Aunt Petunia exchanged looks of utter horror. If their
least favorite thing in the world was magic, closely followed by neighbors
who cheated more than they did on the hosepipe ban, people who heard
voices were definitely in the bottom ten. They obviously thought Dudley was
losing his mind.
“What sort of things did you hear, popkin?” breathed Aunt Petunia, very
white-faced and with tears in her eyes.
But Dudley seemed incapable of saying. He shuddered again and shook his
large blond head, and despite the sense of numb dread that had settled on
Harry since the arrival of the first owl, he felt a certain curiosity. Dementors
caused a person to relive the worst moments of their life. . . . What would
spoiled, pampered, bullying Dudley have been forced to hear?
“How come you fell over, son?” said Uncle Vernon in an unnaturally quiet
voice, the kind of voice he would adopt at the bedside of a very ill person.
“T-tripped,” said Dudley shakily. “And then —”
He gestured at his massive chest. Harry understood: Dudley was
remembering the clammy cold that filled the lungs as hope and happiness
were sucked out of you.
“Horrible,” croaked Dudley. “Cold. Really cold.”
“Okay,” said Uncle Vernon in a voice of forced calm, while Aunt Petunia
laid an anxious hand on Dudley’s forehead to feel his temperature. “What
happened then, Dudders?”
“Felt . . . felt . . . felt . . . as if . . . as if . . .”
“As if you’d never be happy again,” Harry supplied tonelessly.
“Yes,” Dudley whispered, still trembling.
“So,” said Uncle Vernon, voice restored to full and considerable volume as
he straightened up. “So you put some crackpot spell on my son so he’d hear
voices and believe he was — was doomed to misery, or something, did you?”
“How many times do I have to tell you?” said Harry, temper and voice
rising together. “It wasn’t me! It was a couple of dementors!”
“A couple of — what’s this codswallop?”
“De — men — tors,” said Harry slowly and clearly. “Two of them.”
“And what the ruddy hell are dementors?”
“They guard the wizard prison, Azkaban,” said Aunt Petunia.
Two seconds’ ringing silence followed these words and then Aunt Petunia
clapped her hand over her mouth as though she had let slip a disgusting swear
word. Uncle Vernon was goggling at her. Harry’s brain reeled. Mrs. Figg was
one thing — but Aunt Petunia?
“How d’you know that?” he asked her, astonished.
Aunt Petunia looked quite appalled with herself. She glanced at Uncle
Vernon in fearful apology, then lowered her hand slightly to reveal her horsey
teeth.
“I heard — that awful boy — telling her about them — years ago,” she said
jerkily.
“If you mean my mum and dad, why don’t you use their names?” said
Harry loudly, but Aunt Petunia ignored him. She seemed horribly flustered.
Harry was stunned. Except for one outburst years ago, in the course of
which Aunt Petunia had screamed that Harry’s mother had been a freak, he
had never heard her mention her sister. He was astounded that she had
remembered this scrap of information about the magical world for so long,
when she usually put all her energies into pretending it didn’t exist.
Uncle Vernon opened his mouth, closed it again, opened it once more, shut
it, then, apparently struggling to remember how to talk, opened it for a third
time and croaked, “So — so — they — er — they — er — they actually exist,
do they — er — dementy-whatsits?”
Aunt Petunia nodded.
Uncle Vernon looked from Aunt Petunia to Dudley to Harry as if hoping
somebody was going to shout “April Fool!” When nobody did, he opened his
mouth yet again, but was spared the struggle to find more words by the arrival
of the third owl of the evening, which zoomed through the still-open window
like a feathery cannonball and landed with a clatter on the kitchen table,
causing all three of the Dursleys to jump with fright. Harry tore a second
official-looking envelope from the owl’s beak and ripped it open as the owl
swooped back out into the night.
“Enough — effing — owls . . .” muttered Uncle Vernon distractedly,
stomping over to the window and slamming it shut again.
Dear Mr. Potter,
Further to our letter of approximately twenty-two minutes ago, the
Ministry of Magic has revised its decision to destroy your wand
forthwith. You may retain your wand until your disciplinary hearing on
12th August, at which time an official decision will be taken.
Following discussions with the headmaster of Hogwarts School of
Witchcraft and Wizardry, the Ministry has agreed that the question of
your expulsion will also be decided at that time. You should therefore
consider yourself suspended from school pending further inquiries.
With best wishes,
Yours sincerely,
IMPROPER USE OF MAGIC OFFICE
Ministry of Magic
Harry read this letter through three times in quick succession. The
miserable knot in his chest loosened slightly at the thought that he was not
definitely expelled, though his fears were by no means banished. Everything
seemed to hang on this hearing on the twelfth of August.
“Well?” said Uncle Vernon, recalling Harry to his surroundings. “What
now? Have they sentenced you to anything? Do your lot have the death
penalty?” he added as a hopeful afterthought.
“I’ve got to go to a hearing,” said Harry.
“And they’ll sentence you there?”
“I suppose so.”
“I won’t give up hope, then,” said Uncle Vernon nastily.
“Well, if that’s all,” said Harry, getting to his feet. He was desperate to be
alone, to think, perhaps to send a letter to Ron, Hermione, or Sirius.
“NO, IT RUDDY WELL IS NOT ALL!” bellowed Uncle Vernon. “SIT
BACK DOWN!”
“What now?” said Harry impatiently.
“DUDLEY!” roared Uncle Vernon. “I want to know exactly what happened
to my son!”
“FINE!” yelled Harry, and in his temper, red and gold sparks shot out of the
end of his wand, still clutched in his hand. All three Dursleys flinched,
looking terrified.
“Dudley and I were in the alleyway between Magnolia Crescent and
Wisteria Walk,” said Harry, speaking fast, fighting to control his temper.
“Dudley thought he’d be smart with me, I pulled out my wand but didn’t use
it. Then two dementors turned up —”
“But what ARE dementoids?” asked Uncle Vernon furiously. “What do
they DO?”
“I told you — they suck all the happiness out of you,” said Harry, “and if
they get the chance, they kiss you —”
“Kiss you?” said Uncle Vernon, his eyes popping slightly. “Kiss you?”
“It’s what they call it when they suck the soul out of your mouth.”
Aunt Petunia uttered a soft scream.
“His soul? They didn’t take — he’s still got his —”
She seized Dudley by the shoulders and shook him, as though testing to se